Section 1: Security Practices in DevOps (12 Qs)

Q1. What is DevSecOps? Why is it important?
A: DevSecOps means embedding security into DevOps pipelines. Instead of treating security as a separate phase at the end, we shift security checks left: scanning code, dependencies, container images, infrastructure as code, and enforcing policies during CI/CD. This prevents costly vulnerabilities from reaching production.

Q2. How do you handle secrets in DevOps pipelines?
A:

Store in secret managers (AWS Secrets Manager, HashiCorp Vault, Azure Key Vault).

Never hardcode in Git or Jenkinsfiles.

Use sealed secrets or External Secrets Operator in K8s.

Rotate regularly, enforce least privilege.

Q3. What are common CI/CD security practices?
A:

Code scanning (SonarQube, CodeQL).

Dependency scanning (Trivy, OWASP Dependency Check).

Container image scans.

Least privilege for pipeline service accounts.

Enforce signed commits and signed container images (Cosign).

Q4. How do you secure Docker images?
A:

Use minimal base images.

Run as non-root.

Pin image versions.

Scan regularly.

Enable Docker Content Trust.

Q5. How to implement RBAC in Kubernetes securely?
A:

Follow principle of least privilege.

Use service accounts per app.

Bind roles tightly (don’t use cluster-admin).

Audit API server requests.

Q6. How do you secure CI/CD agents?
A:

Run them in isolated environments.

Patch agents frequently.

Rotate credentials.

Restrict plugin usage (in Jenkins).

Q7. How do you protect IaC (Terraform/Helm) from misconfigurations?
A:

Run Checkov/OPA policies before apply.

Enforce no hardcoded secrets.

Validate tags, networking, security group rules.

Q8. What’s Zero Trust in DevOps?
A: Never trust, always verify. Every request is authenticated/authorized. Micro-segmentation and least privilege are enforced across the CI/CD pipeline, cloud, and K8s cluster.

Q9. How do you secure logs?
A:

Mask sensitive data (passwords, tokens).

Encrypt logs in transit and at rest.

Restrict access (role-based dashboards).

Q10. How do you prevent supply chain attacks?
A:

Verify third-party dependencies.

Sign images/manifests.

Generate SBOM (Syft).

Use admission controllers to block unsigned/unscanned artifacts.

Q11. What’s runtime security in Kubernetes?
A: Tools like Falco monitor syscalls to detect suspicious behavior (crypto mining, privilege escalation). Alerts can trigger auto-remediation.

Q12. How do you handle vulnerability management in production?
A:

Patch regularly (automated AMI/image builds).

Automated scanning pipelines.

Prioritize by CVSS score.

Blue/green deployments for safe patch rollouts.

🚨 Section 2: Major Production Issues & Fixes (15 Qs)

Q13. CI/CD pipeline stuck during build — resolution?
A:

Check worker/agent logs.

Verify repo connectivity.

Kill stale jobs, add timeout directive.

Add caching for dependencies to reduce long builds.

Q14. Frequent pipeline failures due to flaky tests — fix?
A:

Run tests in containers for consistency.

Separate flaky tests → quarantine.

Add retries in pipeline with backoff.

Q15. Docker image not pulling in Kubernetes — resolution?
A:

kubectl describe pod → ImagePullBackOff.

Fix image tag mismatch.

Verify registry creds in imagePullSecrets.

Q16. Kubernetes pods in CrashLoopBackOff — how to debug?
A:

kubectl logs <pod> to check errors.

Readiness probe may be failing → adjust thresholds.

Out-of-memory? → Check kubectl describe pod events.

Solution: fix app config, increase resources, or adjust probe timings.

Q17. Cluster scaling fails — resolution?
A:

Check cloud provider quota.

Node pool IAM role misconfigured.

Fix autoscaler configuration.

Q18. Production deployment failed mid-way — rollback strategy?
A:

kubectl rollout undo deployment <name>.

Helm rollback: helm rollback <release>.

If DB migrations involved → use versioned migrations with backward compatibility.

Q19. High pod restarts in monitoring namespace (Prometheus/Grafana) — fix?
A:

Increase resources.

PersistentVolume misconfigured → fix PVC binding.

Update to stable Helm charts.

Q20. Alert storms (too many alerts) in monitoring — fix?
A:

Group alerts.

Introduce severity levels.

Add deduplication rules in Alertmanager.

Suppress low-priority alerts during incidents.

Q21. Latency spikes in app — how to debug?
A:

Check golden signals: latency, error rate, traffic, saturation.

Use tracing (Jaeger) to find bottlenecks.

Investigate DB queries or pod autoscaling.

Q22. Disk full on Jenkins server — resolution?
A:

Clean old workspaces (workspace cleanup plugin).

Use ephemeral agents.

Rotate logs/artifacts.

Q23. Terraform apply accidentally destroyed infra — prevention?
A:

Enable -target for scoped changes.

Use terraform plan + peer review.

Enable state locking.

Sentinel/OPA policies for guardrails.

Q24. Expired SSL cert broke production — fix?
A:

Monitor cert expiry with Prometheus exporter.

Auto-renew with cert-manager in Kubernetes.

Emergency: renew manually via Let’s Encrypt or re-import cert.

Q25. Prometheus eating 100% CPU — resolution?
A:

Reduce scrape interval.

Limit retention (15d → 7d).

Use remote storage (Thanos, Cortex).

Q26. ArgoCD app OutOfSync repeatedly — fix?
A:

Check Git repo sync status.

Verify Kubernetes resource drift (manual edits).

Use argocd app diff.

Q27. Network outage between CI/CD and cluster — fix?
A:

Ensure VPN/peering up.

Fallback: push manifests to Git, ArgoCD pulls (GitOps model).

👨‍💻 Section 3: Experience Difference (5 Qs)

Q28. What distinguishes a 3-yr DevOps engineer vs 12-yr one?
A:

3-yr:

Hands-on with CI/CD tools.

Can set up pipelines, deploy apps, manage clusters.

Still task/execution-focused.

12-yr:

Solution design & architecture.

Cost optimization.

Handles org-wide scaling, compliance, governance.

Mentors juniors, drives best practices.

Talks to business about trade-offs.

Q29. Example: 3-yr engineer sets up Prometheus; 12-yr engineer designs full observability strategy (SLOs, budgeting, scaling).

Q30. Example: 3-yr engineer automates builds; 12-yr engineer decides migration from Jenkins → GitHub Actions/Argo CD with ROI analysis.

Q31. Example: 3-yr engineer writes Helm chart; 12-yr engineer defines org-wide Helm repo strategy with signed charts.

Q32. Example: 3-yr engineer works on sprint tasks; 12-yr engineer works on roadmaps + leadership + compliance.

🚀 Section 4: ArgoCD Questions (12 Qs)

Q33. What is ArgoCD?
A: GitOps tool that syncs Kubernetes state with Git repo. Declarative deployments, rollback, drift detection.

Q34. How does ArgoCD differ from Jenkins CD?
A: Jenkins pushes → cluster. ArgoCD pulls → from Git. Git is the source of truth. Drift detection is automatic.

Q35. How do you sync apps in ArgoCD?
A: Manual sync or auto-sync (self-heal + prune).

Q36. How do you handle secrets in ArgoCD?
A: Use SealedSecrets, External Secrets Operator, or Vault plugin. Never commit raw secrets in Git.

Q37. How do you rollback in ArgoCD?
A: argocd app rollback <app-name> <revision>. Or redeploy older Git commit.

Q38. What’s ArgoCD ApplicationSet?
A: Allows generating multiple applications dynamically (e.g., same app across multiple clusters/namespaces).

Q39. ArgoCD vs Helmfile?
A: Helmfile manages multiple Helm charts; ArgoCD can deploy Helmfile definitions. ArgoCD adds GitOps features.

Q40. How do you secure ArgoCD?
A: Enable SSO (OIDC), RBAC per team, HTTPS/TLS, restrict cluster-admin.

Q41. What happens if someone changes resources manually in cluster?
A: ArgoCD detects drift → marks app as OutOfSync → can auto-correct.

Q42. How to do multi-cluster management with ArgoCD?
A: Register clusters (argocd cluster add) → deploy apps per cluster.

Q43. How does ArgoCD handle Helm charts?
A: Can render Helm directly from repo → apply manifests. Values can be overridden via Git.

Q44. Can ArgoCD be used with Terraform?
A: Not directly. But Terraform can provision infra, while ArgoCD manages workloads. GitOps infra via Crossplane is possible.

🔑 Section 5: SSL in K8s kubeadm cluster (12 Qs)

Q45. How do you secure apps in Kubernetes with SSL?
A: Use Ingress with TLS termination. Certificates managed by cert-manager or manually via secrets.

Q46. How to create a TLS secret in K8s?

kubectl create secret tls myapp-tls \
  --cert=cert.pem \
  --key=key.pem -n myapp-namespace


Q47. How do you apply certs for frontend app in kubeadm cluster?

Create Ingress resource → attach TLS secret.

Update DNS → point domain to ingress controller LB.

Q48. Example Ingress YAML with SSL:

apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: frontend-ingress
spec:
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - frontend.example.com
    secretName: frontend-tls
  rules:
  - host: frontend.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: frontend-service
            port:
              number: 80


Q49. How do you handle DB TLS certs in Kubernetes?

Mount TLS certs via secrets as volumes/env.

Configure DB client (backend) to trust CA.

Q50. How do you automate SSL cert renewal?
A: cert-manager with Let’s Encrypt ClusterIssuer.

Q51. Example ClusterIssuer for Let’s Encrypt:

apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt-prod
spec:
  acme:
    server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    email: admin@example.com
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: letsencrypt-key
    solvers:
    - http01:
        ingress:
          class: nginx


Q52. How do you confirm if SSL cert is applied?

kubectl describe ingress frontend-ingress
curl -vk https://frontend.example.com


Q53. How do you apply SSL in multi-tier apps (frontend + backend)?

Frontend: Ingress TLS.

Backend API: Internal certs (mtls if required).

DB: TLS connection with secret-mounted certs.

Q54. How do you manage certs for external DBs?

Fetch DB CA cert → store in K8s secret → mount into backend pod.

Q55. What’s the challenge in SSL for microservices?

Managing multiple domains/subdomains.

Wildcard or SAN certs help.

cert-manager automates renewal.

Q56. How do you secure gRPC services in K8s?

Use Ingress with TLS passthrough.

Or terminate TLS at service mesh (Istio/Linkerd).
